This ZenPack provides the ability to monitor oVirt and by extension, Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization (RHEV). An explanation of what oVirt is can be found on the [http://www.ovirt.org/ oVirt] and [http://www.redhat.com/products/virtualization/ Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization] sites.

<blockquote>
The oVirt Project is an open virtualization project for anyone who cares about Linux-based KVM virtualization. Providing a feature-rich server virtualization management system with advanced capabilities for hosts and guests, including high availability, live migration, storage management, system scheduler, and more. This ZenPack models, collects events, and collects performance information from an oVirt server for data centers, clusters, hosts and virtual machines.
</blockquote>

== Features ==

=== Metrics ===
Once you've successfully added a ovirt system to Zenoss you will begin to see the following metrics available.

* Host CPU, memory, network utilization
* VM CPU, memory, network, disk utilization and throughput
* Counts of hosts, VMs residing in the various containers

=== Events ===
oVirt/Rhev has a single event stream containing both events and alerts. The API does not appear to map an opening event to a closing event. For this reason automatic closing of events is not yet supported.  Additionally it appears that oVirt may drop events off of its queue very quickly. We are reading events every minute to reduce the chance of a missed event since there is no real time event mechanism in oVirt.

== Limitations ==
This version of the ZenPack only supports HTTP access to the oVirt server. This version of the ZenPack does not automatically clear events.  The oVirt API seems appears to be limited in regards to events. This version of the ZenPack does not automatically detect device models in real time and this can be worked around by manually scheduling zenmodeler to run via cron on a regular basis.

The oVirt controller node is really a Linux device. It might be desirable to set the appropriate modeler plugins and templates to add additional Linux metrics to this organizer. Alternatively, you could use a CNAME for this device and model the real device under a different hostname and organizer.

== Configuration ==
Installing the ZenPack will add the following items to your Zenoss system.

;Device Classes
* /oVirt

;Configuration Properties
* zOVirtPassword
* zOVirtUrl
* zOVirtDomain
* zOVirtUser

;Modeler Plugins
* zenoss.oVirt

;Monitoring Templates
* oVirtCluster
* oVirtDataCenter
* oVirtHost
* oVirtHostNic
* oVirtStorageDomain
* oVirtSystem
* oVirtVm
* oVirtVmDisk
* oVirtVmNic

;Event Classes
* /oVirt

The above Configuration Properties will be automatically set when adding a new oVirt instance.

{{note}} If the zOVirtUrl changes it would be recommended to rename the ovirt device as well.

== Usage ==

=== Add an oVirt Server ===
# Navigate to the ''Infrastructure'' page
# Click on the ''Add Device'' menu item and select ''Add oVirt Infrastructure...'' option.
# Fill in the appropriate fields in the dialog box:
## ''URL'': URL of the oVirt instance. (i.e. http://ovirt.example.com:8080)
## ''Authentication Domain'': Domain in which the user credentials are valid.
## ''Username'': User name.
## ''Password'': Password for the user.
## ''Collector'': Zenoss collector to which the device will be assigned.
# Click on the ''Add'' button.
## Wait for the device to be modeled.
## Navigate to the new device.

=== Add an oVirt Server (zenbatchload) ===
1. Add an entry like the following to your zenbatchload input file.

<console>
/Devices/oVirt loader='oVirt', loader_arg_keys=['url', 'username', 'domain', 'password']
ovirt.zenosslabs.com url='http://ovirt.zenosslabs.com', username='admin', domain='internal', password='zenoss'
</console>

2. Run ''zenbatchload''.

<console>
zenbatchload inputfile
</console>

=== Add an oVirt Server (zendmd) ===
# Run the following snippet in ''zendmd''.

<syntaxhighlight lang="python">
ovirt_facade = getFacade('oVirt')
ovirt_facade.add_ovirt('http://ovirt.example.com','username', 'domain', 'password')
commit()
</syntaxhighlight>

== Change Log ==
;1.2.0 - 2013-04-11
* Support for oVirt 3.2.
* Introduced dependency on PythonCollector ZenPack.
* Moved from COMMAND datasources to Python datasources for better performance.

;1.1.0 - 2012-08-28
* Support for RHEV 3.
* Discovery of oVirt or RHEV product and version information.
* RHEV and oVirt Icons for all component types.
* Fix for "No data returned for command" events.

;1.0.3 - 2012-08-06
* First fully-featured release.
* No longer dependent on Liberator ZenPack.

;1.0.1 - 2012-03-21
* Initial demonstration release.
